# =nil; Proof Market Proof Generator

# Introduction

This repository serves as a PoC of how a =nil; Foundation supported proof market would operate.

The marketplace consists of the following entities.
- Proof Requester : This can be an application like a bridge requesting 
balance or a user interested in cross cluster operation and/or trust-less data access.
- Proof Generator : This is an entity who will generate the proofs for the requests/orders
made by the Proof Requester.
- Circuit Developer : This is an entity who prepare circuits for proof market

Below we will list a set of operations a user can follow along which demonstrates the market 
operation interaction between the above two entities.

# Proof Market Interaction

## 0. Prepare zkLLVM (for circuit developers)
The most productive way to create a circuit definition for Proof Market is [zkLLVM](https://github.com/NilFoundation/zkllvm).
All dependencies and build instructions are inside the [zkLLVM's repository](https://github.com/NilFoundation/zkllvm). 

## 1. Circuit Generation/Publishing (for circuit developers)

Circuits can be generated by anyone. They are serialized & published on the proof market. 
This allows the reuse of the circuits by all other proof requesters. Circuits need a set 
of public inputs. Below we create a new circuit and public params for it.

1.1  Create a new сircuit (using [zkLLVM](https://github.com/NilFoundation/zkllvm))
```
make -C ${ZKLLVM_BUILD:-build} <circuit target name> -j$(nproc)
```

1.2 Prepare a statement with circuit description for Proof Market

Circuits are stored as a *statement* structure on Proof Market.
Statement description example can be found in /example directory

```
python3 scripts/prepare_statement.py -c <zkllvm output> -o <statement description file>
```

Provide the necessary information listed in the output statement file

1.2 Publish it to Proof Market

This statement can now be pushed to the Proof market via python script

```
python3 scripts/statement_tools.py push --file <json file with statement description> --auth <json authorization file>
```

Authorization file examples can be found in /example directory.

You will be returned an object containing a *_key* filed -- unique descriptor of the statement

1.3 Get all statements

A list of all available statements can be obtained by

```
python3 scripts/statement_tools.py get
```


## 2. Proof Market Bid Creation

The proof requester can create an order. An order has additional details such as who is requesting the proof and what they are willing to pay for it

```
python3 scripts/bid_tools.py push --cost <cost of the bid> --file <json file with public_input> --key <key of the statement> --auth <json authorization file>
```

The proof requester can check their bid with
```
python3 scripts/bid_tools.py get --key <key of the bid> --auth <json authorization file>
```


## 3. Wait for asks
Here the proof requester waits for proposals to be submitted against this order.


## 4. Submit ask
While the proposal is up, we now view at the marketplace from the perspective of a 
proof producer. In steps 1-3, the requester puts out a bid. Now the producer can
observe them in the marketplace and start replying with an ask.

```
python3 scripts/ask_tools.py push --cost <cost of the ask> --key <key of the statement> --auth <json authorization file>
```

The proof producer can check their ask with

```
python3 scripts/ask_tools.py get --key <key of the ask> --auth <json authorization file>
```


## 5. Order Matching

Proof Market runs a matching algorithm between bids and asks for each new bid/ask. 
It chooses the cheapest ask that fits the requirements of the proof requester. 


## 6. Proof Generation
Ask's status 'processing' means that the ask was matched with a bid.
Now it is time to generate a proof for the proof producer. 

First of all, the proof producer needs circuit definition:

```
python3 scripts/statement_tools.py get --key <key of the statement> -o <output file> --auth <json authorization file>
```

Next, public input of the bid:

```
python3 scripts/public_input_get.py --key <bid key> -o <output file path> --auth <json authorization file>
```

Execute the below to generate a proof (using [zkLLVM](https://github.com/NilFoundation/zkllvm)):
```
${ZKLLVM_BUILD:-build}/bin/assigner/assigner -b <circuit definition file> -i <public input file> -t <assignments table file> -c <proof file>
```


## 7. Proof Submission
The proof generator can now submit the proof to the marketplace, where if verified, they will
get the reward.


```
python3 scripts/proof_tools.py push --bid_key <key of the bid> --ask_key <key of the ask> --file <file with the proof> --auth <json authorization file>
```

You can provide only one of two possible keys

## 8. Get Proof

Now the proof requester is able to get their proof either by bid key or proof key.

```
python3 scripts/proof_tools.py get --bid_key <key of the bid> --auth <json authorization file>
```

# Common issues

## Compilation Errors
If you have more than one compiler installed i.e g++ & clang++. The make system might pick up the former. You can explicitly force usage of
clang++ by finding the path and passing it in the variable below.

```
`which clang++`  
cmake .. -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=<path to clang++ from above>
```

## Submodule management
Git maintains a few places where submodule details are cached. Sometimes updates do not come through. ex: Deletion , updating
a url of a previously checked out submodule.It is advisable to check these locations for remains or try a new checkout.
- .gitmodules
- .git/config
- .git/modules/*
