# Terminology

{% hint style="warning" %}
The Proof Market version represented here is beta. We expect constant changes to the below as per the feedback we receive from participants.
{% endhint %}

## Spot vs Futures

Every marketplace has a set of instruments. There are buyers and sellers in the market for each of these instruments. Example: London Stock Exchange allows users to buy/sell stocks of companies, or Binance allows users to buy/sell Bitcoin- these are known as spot markets as you own the commodity.&#x20;

Exchanges also allow buying/selling of a future price of the instrument. Example: Binance allows users to buy/sell future values of Bitcoin via perpetuals - these are known as derivative markets as you do not own the underlying instrument but are just speculating on its price.

\=nil;'s proof market is more on the lines of a Spot Market rather than a speculative value of proof generation.

{% hint style="info" %}
The beta of the proof market is centralised.
{% endhint %}



## Instruments/Circuits

As mentioned above, markets tend to arrive at a fair value for an instrument through interactions between buyers and sellers. In =nil's proof markets, the instruments are Circuits (initially generated by the zkLLVM). These circuits are serialised byte codes created by the proof system, which was compiled with the zkLLVM compiler.&#x20;

{% hint style="info" %}
The instruments will require approval by =nil;Foundation to trade on Proof Market.
{% endhint %}



## Entities

The marketplace consists of the following entities.

* **Proof Requester**: This can be an application like a bridge requesting balance or a user interested in the cross-cluster operation and/or trust-less data access.
* **Proof Producer**: This is an entity that will generate the proofs for the requests/orders made by the Proof Requester.

## Orders Types

* **Buy Order**: A buy order is posted by a proof requester. Each buy order comprises of following parameters:
  * **Circuit**: The instruments for which this order is placed. ex: MINA state-proof circuit or Solana state-proof circuit.
  * **Cost**: Amount the user is willing to pay for the proof. This is a number represented in USD.
  * **Order Time Out**: Once the order enters the marketplace, this defines how long it should stay in the order book. If it times out before being matched, it is purged. This is a number expressed in minutes.
  *   **Generation Time**:  Once the order is matched, this specifies the maximum time the proof generator has to publish the proof. This is an optional parameter. This is a number expressed in minutes.&#x20;


* **Sell Order**: A sell order is posted by a proof Generator. Each sell order comprises of following parameters.
  * **Circuit**: The instruments for which a generator is willing to generate a proof.
  * **Cost:** Amount the proof generator is willing to accept to create a proof.
  * **Order Time Out**: Once the order enters the marketplace, this defines how long it should stay in the order book. If it times out before being matched, it is purged. This is a number expressed in minutes.
  * **Generation Time:** The upper bound by which the proof will be generated once matched.

## Order Matching

Currently, a daemon process matches the orders when the following parameters are met within the order timeout criteria.

* Cost
* Generation time

## Order Settlement

Order settlement takes place once the proof generator has submitted the proof to the marketplace after generation.

