# 1. Setup

MINA proofs are computationally heavy; hence to have a MINA state proof validated in EVM, users need to use the proof market to generate proofs.

You need to set up the following environments to follow along with this guide.

## 1. Proof Market&#x20;

Please ensure you have done the following steps:

* [Installation](../../guides/installation.md):  Clone the repository. You don't need to build anything, as we will only be using Python scripts.
* [Authentication](../../market/user-guides/sign-up.md): Set up the `proof-market-toolchain` authentication as a user. You do not need to create a Proof Producer profile.

This will be referred to as `proof-market-toolchain` the home in the guide

## 2. Lorem Ipsum&#x20;

Lorem Ipsum project consists of utilities to interface with protocols of various networks. This is where you will find scripts to get the MINA state. Please clone the repository [here](https://github.com/NilFoundation/lorem-ipsum-cli) and follow the instructions to install dependencies.

This will be referred to as `lorem-ipsum-cli`  home in the guide

## 3. Mina State Proof&#x20;

Mina state-proof repository maintains the solidity EVM verifier for the MINA state-proof and circuits. Please clone the repository located [here](https://github.com/NilFoundation/mina-state-proof) and install any dependencies.&#x20;

This will be referred to as `mina-state-proof` home in the guide

## 4. Mina zkApp

Mina zkApp project consists of a sample zkApp with 8 state variables that are updated on each interaction. This is located at `mina-state-proof/examples/mina-add-zkapp` . Please follow the steps to Install the project dependencies present at `mina-state-proof/examples/mina-add-zkapp/README.md`.&#x20;

This will be referred to as `mina-add-zkApp` home in the guide

At the end of this step, you should have 4 folders representing the three repositories above as follows

```
proof-market-toolchain/
lorem-ipsum-cli/
mina-state-proof/
mina-state-proof/examples/mina-add-zkapp/
```

## 5. Ganache

We will be using ganache-cli to launch a dummy network to execute our tests/contracts against. Please follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/trufflesuite/ganache#command-line-use) to install ganache cli.

