# 4. Validate Proof

## Validation Steps

### 1. Inputs Proofs

To summarise, we require the below-mentioned artefacts to validate the proof.

* Ledger state proof
  * _File with the account proof from the proof market._
  * _Ledger hash which this proof attests to._ &#x20;
* Account state proof
  * _File with the account proof from the proof market._
  * _Ledger hash which this proof attests to. (same as above ledger state proof)_
  * _Account data._&#x20;

### 2. Launch Ganache

Open a terminal and execute the following to launch the ganache network

```
ganache-cli -l 900000000 -m 'test test test test test test test test test test test junk' -g 20000 --verbose
```

### 3 . Deploy contracts

Please navigate to `mina-state-proof`  home and execute the following from another terminal shell.

```
npx hardhat deploy  --network ganache 
```

Hardhat re-uses old deployments; to force re-deploy, add the `--reset` flag above

### &#x20;4. Validate

Below are two hard hat tasks that execute flows to validate the ledger and account states. Please note these work against the above deployment. Hence, you must run the deployment before executing the following.

#### Validate Ledger State

```
npx hardhat validate_ledger_state --proof ./test/data/proof_v.data --ledger jwYPLbRQa4X86tSJs1aTzusf3TNdVTj58oyWJQB132sEGUtKHcB  --network ganache
```

Inputs

* _proof: File path with the full mina ledger state proof retrieved from the proof market._
* _ledger: Hash of the ledger that this proof attests._
* _network: Network to run this task against_

Please replace the ledger and proof parameters to validate the proof you retrieved from the proof market.

#### Validate Account State

{% hint style="info" %}
Proof validation for account state is in development. These commands show the API usage.
{% endhint %}

```
npx hardhat validate_account_state --proof dummyFlag  --state ./examples/data/account_data.json --ledger jwYPLbRQa4X86tSJs1aTzusf3TNdVTj58oyWJQB132sEGUtKHcB --network ganache
```

Inputs

* _proof: File path of the account state proof retrieved from the proof market_
* _state: File path of the account state to which the above proof attests to._
* _ledger: Hash of the ledger against which the account state is validated._
* _network: Network to run this task against._

#### Account state file structure

```json
{
  "public_key": public key of zkApp/User Account,
  "balance": {
    "liquid": Unlocked balance in MINA,
    "locked": Locked/Staked balance in MINA 
  },
  "state": 8-byte state of zkApp/user account
}

```

See `examples/data/account_data.json` , for example. The `state` needs to be converted into a padded comma-separated string.

To see validation of account bytes in Ethereum, replace the following parameters

* _proof: Dummy variable_
* _ledger: Hash of the ledger against which the account state is validated. This should be the hash which has already been committed in the previous step._
* _state: File path of the account state to which the above proof attests to updated based on structure/example._

Congratulations! If you have reached here, you have now managed to validate both ledger and account proofs in Ethereum.
